Essentialism: The Disciplined Pursuit of Less
Greg McKeown



Highlight Details:
Last accessed on Thursday October 4, 2018
161 Highlight(s) | 0 Note(s)

Yellow highlight | Page: 2
“Is this the very most important thing I should be doing with my time and resources right now?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 3
He stopped attending conference calls that he only had a couple of minutes of interest in. He stopped sitting in on the weekly update call because he didn’t need the information. He stopped attending meetings on his calendar if he didn’t have a direct contribution to make. He explained to me, “Just because I was invited didn’t seem a good enough reason to attend.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 3
Instead of spinning his wheels trying to get everything done, he could get the right things done.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 3
Instead of making just a millimeter of progress in a million directions he began to generate tremendous momentum towards accomplishing the things that were truly vital.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 4
In this example is the basic value proposition of Essentialism: only once you give yourself permission to stop trying to do it all, to stop saying yes to everyone, can you make your highest contribution towards the things that really matter.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 6
Less but better.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 6
“Am I investing in the right activities?” There are far more activities and opportunities in the world than we have time and resources to invest in.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 6
Essentialism is not about how to get more things done; it’s about how to get the right things done. It doesn’t mean just doing less for the sake of less either. It is about making the wisest possible investment of your time and energy in order to operate at our highest point of contribution by doing only what is essential.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 7
The way of the Essentialist means living by design, not by default. Instead of making choices reactively, the Essentialist deliberately distinguishes the vital few from the trivial many, eliminates the nonessentials, and then removes obstacles so the essential things have clear, smooth passage. In other words, Essentialism is a disciplined, systematic approach for determining where our highest point of contribution lies, then making execution of those things almost effortless.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 8
The Model
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 9
The way of the Essentialist is the path to being in control of our own choices.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 10
If you don’t prioritize your life, someone else will.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 14
for many, falling into “the undisciplined pursuit of more” was a key reason for failure.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 16
But when we try to do it all and have it all, we find ourselves making trade-offs at the margins that we would never take on as our intentional strategy. When we don’t purposefully and deliberately choose where to focus our energies and time, other people—our bosses, our colleagues, our clients, and even our families—will choose for us, and before long we’ll have lost sight of everything that is meaningful and important.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 17
“Will this activity or effort make the highest possible contribution toward my goal?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 20
ESSENCE: WHAT IS THE CORE MIND-SET OF AN ESSENTIALIST?
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 20
1. Individual choice: We can choose how to spend our energy and time.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 20
2. The prevalence of noise: Almost everything is noise, and a very few things are exceptionally valuable.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 20
3. The reality of trade-offs: We can’t have it all or do it all.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 23
Many of us say yes to things because we are eager to please and make a difference.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 23
To eliminate nonessentials means saying no to someone. Often.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 26
What if we stopped celebrating being busy as a measurement of importance? What if instead we celebrated how much time we had spent listening, pondering, meditating, and enjoying time with the most important people in our lives?
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 32
Essentialism is not a way to do one more thing; it is a different way of doing everything.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 32
“I choose to,” “Only a few things really matter,” and “I can do anything but not everything.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 35
Our options may be things, but a choice—a choice is an action.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 35
This experience brought me to the liberating realization that while we may not always have control over our options, we always have control over how we choose among them.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 38
choice is at the very core of what it means to be an Essentialist.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 43
“What is the most valuable result I could achieve in this job?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 43
Working hard is important. But more effort does not necessarily yield more results. “Less but better” does.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 44
“the Law of the Vital Few.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 44
Sometimes what you don’t do is just as important as what you do.”6
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 45
“You cannot overestimate the unimportance of practically everything.”9
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 50
“You have to look at every opportunity and say, ‘Well, no … I’m sorry. We’re not going to do a thousand different things that really won’t contribute much to the end result we are trying to achieve.’ ”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 52
we can either make the hard choices for ourselves or allow others—whether our colleagues, our boss, or our customers—to decide for us.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 55
As painful as they can sometimes be, trade-offs represent a significant opportunity. By forcing us to weigh both options and strategically select the best one for us, we significantly increase our chance of achieving the outcome we want.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 60
To discern what is truly essential we need space to think, time to look and listen, permission to play, wisdom to sleep, and the discipline to apply highly selective criteria to the choices we make.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 62
Essentialists spend as much time as possible exploring, listening, debating, questioning, and thinking. But their exploration is not an end in itself. The purpose of the exploration is to discern the vital few from the trivial many.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 68
“Can you remember what it was like to be bored? It doesn’t happen anymore.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 68
Here’s another paradox for you: the faster and busier things get, the more we need to build thinking time into our schedule. And the noisier things get, the more we need to build quiet reflection spaces in which we can truly focus.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 74
In every set of facts, something essential is hidden.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 76
Essentialists are powerful observers and listeners.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 78
Capture the headline. Look for the lead in your day, your week, your life. Small, incremental changes are hard to see in the moment but over time can have a huge cumulative effect.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 87
play is an antidote to stress, and this is key because stress, in addition to being an enemy of productivity, can actually shut down the creative, inquisitive, exploratory parts of our brain.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 94
Protecting the Asset
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 94
The best asset we have for making a contribution to the world is ourselves.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 99
In a nutshell, sleep is what allows us to operate at our highest level of contribution so that we can achieve more, in less time.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 102
Sleep will enhance your ability to explore, make connections, and do less but better throughout your waking hours.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 103
“No More Yes. It’s Either HELL YEAH! Or No,” the popular
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 103
“If the answer isn’t a definite yes then it should be a no.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 107
Making our criteria both selective and explicit affords us a systematic tool for discerning what is essential and filtering out the things that are not.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 115
ELIMINATE How Can We Cut Out the Trivial Many?
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 118
“If I didn’t already own this, how much would I spend to buy it?” Likewise, in your life, the killer question when deciding what activities to eliminate is: “If I didn’t have this opportunity, what would I be willing to do to acquire it?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 118
“What, of my list of competing priorities, should I say yes to?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 118
Instead, ask the essential question: “What will I say no to?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 120
how to eliminate nonessentials in order to ensure that we can pour our energies into the activities that are most meaningful to us.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 121
When there is a serious lack of clarity about what the team stands for and what their goals and roles are, people experience confusion, stress, and frustration. When there is a high level of clarity, on the other hand, people thrive.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 124
In the same way, when individuals are involved in too many disparate activities—even good activities—they can fail to achieve their essential mission. One reason for this is that the activities don’t work in concert, so they don’t add up into a meaningful whole.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 124
When teams are really clear about their purpose and their individual roles, on the other hand, it is amazing what happens to team dynamics.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 126
An essential intent, on the other hand, is both inspirational and concrete, both meaningful and measurable. Done right, an essential intent is one decision that settles one thousand later decisions.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 126
One strategic choice eliminates a universe of other options and maps a course for the next five, ten, or even twenty years of your life.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 126
Has a strategy that is concrete and inspirational Has an intent that is both meaningful and memorable Makes one decision that eliminates one thousand later decisions
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 126
“To get everyone in the U.K. online by the end of 2012.” It was simple, concrete, inspiring, and easily measured.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 127
STOP WORDSMITHING AND START DECIDING
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 127
“If we could be truly excellent at only one thing, what would it be?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 127
ASK, “HOW WILL WE KNOW WHEN WE’RE DONE?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 127
we need to remember that concrete objectives have the power to elevate and inspire as
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 128
Living with Intent Essential intent applies to so much more than your job description or your company’s mission statement; a true essential intent is one that guides your greater sense of purpose, and helps you chart your life’s path.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 130
It takes asking tough questions, making real trade-offs, and exercising serious discipline to cut out the competing priorities that distract us from our true intention.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 136
A true Essentialist, Peter Drucker believed that “people are effective because they say no.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 140
The “No” Repertoire
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 140
1. The awkward pause.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 140
2. The soft “no” (or the “no but”).
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 140
3. “Let me check my calendar and get back to you.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 140
4. Use e-mail bouncebacks.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 141
5. Say, “Yes. What should I deprioritize?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 141
6. Say it with humor.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 142
7. Use the words “You are welcome to X. I am willing to Y.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 142
8. “I can’t do it, but X might be interested.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 145
HALF OF THE TROUBLES OF THIS LIFE CAN BE TRACED TO SAYING YES TOO QUICKLY AND NOT SAYING NO SOON ENOUGH. —Josh Billings
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 146
“sunk-cost bias.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 146
Sunk-cost bias is the tendency to continue to invest time, money, or energy into something we know is a losing proposition simply because we have already incurred, or sunk, a cost that cannot be recouped.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 146
The more we invest in something, the harder it is to let go.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 148
“the endowment effect,” our tendency to undervalue things that aren’t ours and to overvalue things because we already own them.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 149
PRETEND YOU DON’T OWN IT YET Tom Stafford describes a simple antidote to the endowment effect.6 Instead of asking, “How much do I value this item?” we should ask, “If I did not own this item, how much would I pay to obtain it?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 151
STATUS QUO BIAS
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 151
The tendency to continue doing something simply because we have always done it is sometimes called the “status quo bias.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 153
“reverse pilot.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 153
In a reverse pilot you test whether removing an initiative or activity will have any negative consequences.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 154
He simply stopped publishing the report and waited to see what the response would be.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 156
a good film editor makes it hard not to see what’s important because she eliminates everything but the elements that absolutely need to be there.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 156
he thinks of the role of CEO as being the chief editor of the company.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 157
a good editor is someone who uses deliberate subtraction to actually add life to the ideas, setting, plot, and characters.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 157
Likewise, in life, disciplined editing can help add to your level of contribution. It increases your ability to focus on and give energy to the things that really matter.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 158
Thinks that making things better means subtracting something Eliminates the distracting words, images, and details
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 158
CUT OUT OPTIONS
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 159
having fewer options actually makes a decision “easier on the eye and the brain,”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 159
we realize that every additional moment we have gained can be spent on something better.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 160
CONDENSE
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 160
“I must apologize: if I had more time I would have written a shorter letter.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 160
“What Is an Editor?” there are “two basic questions the editor should be addressing to the author: Are you saying what you want to say? and, Are you saying it as clearly and concisely as possible?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 161
We need to eliminate multiple meaningless activities and replace them with one very meaningful activity.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 161
CORRECT An editor’s job is not just to cut or condense but also to make something right.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 161
EDIT LESS This may seem a little counterintuitive. But the best editors don’t feel the need to change everything.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 162
Becoming an editor in our lives also includes knowing when to show restraint. One way we can do this is by editing our tendency to step
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 164
get clear with each member of the team about expectations, accountability, and outcomes.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 166
After all, if you don’t set boundaries—there won’t be any.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 166
Essentialists, on the other hand, see boundaries as empowering.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 168
DON’T ROB PEOPLE OF THEIR PROBLEMS I am not saying we should never help people. We should serve, and love, and make a difference in the lives of others, of course. But when people make their problem our problem, we aren’t helping them; we’re enabling them.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 168
Once we take their problem for them, all we’re doing is taking away their ability to solve it.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 169
when we don’t set clear boundaries in our lives we can end up imprisoned by the limits others have set for us.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 170
Make a list of your dealbreakers—the types of requests or activities from that person that you simply refuse to say yes to unless they somehow overlap with your own priorities or agenda.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 170
CRAFT SOCIAL CONTRACTS
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 174
Essentialists invest the time they have saved by eliminating the nonessentials into designing a system to make execution almost effortless.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 176
A “buffer” can be defined literally as something that prevents two things from coming into contact and harming each other.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 178
The Nonessentialist tends to always assume a best-case scenario. We all know those people (and many of us, myself included, have been that person) who chronically underestimate how long something will really take:
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 180
USE EXTREME PREPARATION When I was a graduate student at Stanford I learned the key to receiving top grades was extreme preparation.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 183
simply to add a 50 percent buffer to the amount of time we estimate it will take to complete a task or project (if 50 percent seems overly generous, consider how frequently things actually do take us 50 percent longer than expected).
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 185
Constraints, he is told, are the obstacles holding the whole system back.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 187
But if you really want to improve the overall functioning of the system—whether that system is a manufacturing process, a procedure in your department, or some routine in your daily life—you need to identify the “slowest hiker.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 189
An Essentialist produces more—brings forth more—by removing more instead of doing more.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 190
IDENTIFY THE “SLOWEST HIKER” Instead of just jumping into the project, take a few minutes to think. Ask yourself, “What are all the obstacles standing between me and getting this done?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 195
Essentialist starts small and celebrates progress. Instead of going for the big, flashy wins that don’t really matter, the Essentialist pursues small and simple wins in areas that are essential.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 196
Research has shown that of all forms of human motivation the most effective one is progress. Why? Because a small, concrete win creates momentum and
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 196
affirms our faith in our further success.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 199
FOCUS ON MINIMAL VIABLE PROGRESS
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 199
“Done is better than perfect.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 199
“What is the smallest amount of progress that will be useful and valuable to the essential task we are trying to get done?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 200
DO THE MINIMAL VIABLE PREPARATION
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 207
But the right routines can actually enhance innovation and creativity by giving us the equivalent of an energy rebate.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 212
the tips above to develop a routine of doing your hardest task in the day first thing in the morning.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 212
Jack Dorsey, the cofounder of Twitter and founder of Square, has an interesting approach to his weekly routine. He has divided up his week into themes. Monday is for management meetings and “running the company” work. Tuesday is for product development. Wednesday is for marketing, communications, and growth. Thursday is for developers and partnerships. Friday is for the company and its culture.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 215
LIFE IS AVAILABLE ONLY IN THE PRESENT MOMENT. IF YOU ABANDON THE PRESENT MOMENT YOU CANNOT LIVE THE MOMENTS OF YOUR DAILY LIFE DEEPLY. —Thich Nhat Hanh
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 215
“What’s important now?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 216
“What’s important now?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 220
in fact we can easily do two things at the same time: wash the dishes and listen to the radio, eat and talk, clear the clutter on our desk while thinking about where to go for lunch, text message while watching television, and so on. What we can’t do is concentrate on two things at the same time.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 220
FIGURE OUT WHAT IS MOST IMPORTANT RIGHT NOW
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 222
GET THE FUTURE OUT OF YOUR HEAD Getting the future out of your head enables you to more fully focus on “what is important now.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 224
the sentiment attributed to Lao Tzu: “In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 224
“Mindfulness helps you go home to the present. And every time you go there and recognize a condition of happiness that you have, happiness comes.”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 226
Living Essentially There are two ways of thinking about Essentialism. The first is to think of it as something you do occasionally. The second is to think of it as something you are.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 228
MAJORING IN MINOR ACTIVITIES There is a big difference between being a Nonessentialist who happens to apply Essentialist practices and an Essentialist who only occasionally slips back into some Nonessentialist practices.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 230
If you allow yourself to fully embrace Essentialism—to really live it, in everything you do, whether at home or at work—it can become a part of the way you see and understand the world.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 232
building a career of meaning.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 234
“What if?”
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 236
The Essential Life: Living a Life That Really Matters The life of an Essentialist is a life of meaning. It is a life that really matters.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 240
But when teams lack clarity of purpose, it becomes difficult if not impossible to discern which of these myriad opportunities are truly vital.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 241
THE ELEMENTS OF LEADING AS AN ESSENTIALIST
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 242
Everything to everyone Essentialist Less but better TALENT Nonessentialist Hires people frantically and creates a “Bozo explosion.” Essentialist Ridiculously selective on talent and removes people who hold the team back. STRATEGY Nonessentialist Pursues a straddled strategy where everything is a priority. Essentialist Defines an essential intent by answering the question, “If we could only do one thing, what would it be?” Eliminates the nonessential distractions. EMPOWERMENT Nonessentialist Allows ambiguity over who is doing what. Decisions are capricious. Essentialist
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 242
Focuses on each team member’s highest role and goal of contribution. COMMUNICATION Nonessentialist Talks in code. Essentialist Listens to get to what is essential. ACCOUNTABILITY Nonessentialist Checks in too much or is so busy he or she checks out altogether. Sometimes does both: disrupting the focus of the group and then being absent to the group. Essentialist Checks in with people in a gentle way to see how he or she can remove obstacles and enable small wins. RESULT Nonessentialist A fractured team that makes a millimeter of progress in a million directions Essentialist
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 242
A unified team that breaks through to the next level of contribution
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 243
BE RIDICULOUSLY SELECTIVE IN HIRING PEOPLE
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 243
“Bozo explosion”—a term he uses to describe what happens when a formerly great team or company descends into mediocrity.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 243
An Essentialist, on the other hand, is ridiculously selective on talent. She has the discipline to hold out for the perfect hire—no matter how many résumés she has to read, or interviews she has to conduct, or talent searches she has to make—and doesn’t hesitate to remove people who hold the team
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 243
The result is a team full of all-star performers whose collective efforts add up to more than the sum of their parts
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 243
DEBATE UNTIL YOU HAVE ESTABLISHED A REALLY CLEAR (NOT PRETTY CLEAR) ESSENTIAL INTENT
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 244
GO FOR EXTREME EMPOWERMENT
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 244
An Essentialist understands that clarity is the key to empowerment. He doesn’t allow roles to be general and vague. He ensures that everyone on the team is really clear about what they are expected to contribute and what everyone else is contributing.
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 245
COMMUNICATE THE RIGHT THINGS TO THE RIGHT PEOPLE AT THE RIGHT TIME
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 246
By checking in with people frequently to reward small wins and help people remove obstacles, he bolsters the team’s motivation and focus and enables them to make more meaningful progress
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 246
Out of all virtues simplicity is my most favorite virtue. So much so that I tend to believe that simplicity can solve most of the problems, personal as well as the world problems. If the life approach is simple one need not lie so frequently, nor quarrel nor
                

Yellow highlight | Page: 246
steal, nor envy, anger, abuse, kill. Everyone will have enough and plenty so need not hoard, speculate, gamble, hate. When character is beautiful, you are beautiful. That is the beauty of simplicity.

